# UFC-Height-by-Weight-Class-Revisited
### Recreating my first Python data visualization with more Python experience

The first repository I published to GitHub back in September was a data visualization project where I analyzed the heights for UFC Fighters depending on their weight class. I was very new to Python and coding in general at the time, so I went about the project in the simplest way that I knew how. The data that I used for that analysis was pulled from a reddit thread I found that was dated back from 2016. Since my last project I did outside of school was done in C++, and I've had a bit more time to study and sharpen my Python skills, I wanted to re-create this project with more recent, accurate data. So instead of going off of a data sheet that someone else had made 7 years ago, I used BeautifulSoup to scrape the data for all UFC athletes from ufcstats.com. This is still a fairly simple web scraping project, and my hope is that other coders/students that are still getting their feet wet with Python can use this as a reference. 

### Reason for research
I chose this topic to analyze because a common dilemma that many young combat sports athletes come across is not knowing what weight they should aim to compete at. While there are many factors that heavily influence this decision, arguably the biggest factor is height. The goal of weight cutting for combat sports is to have the most significant size advantage over the opponent as possible. So a good method to help determine what weight classes an athlete can consider competing at is to observe what the most common weights are for other athletes of that same height. This can be easily seen in the boxplot visualization that was created. I have also calculated the win rate percentage of each athlete and included it in the dataset in the Excel file, to get an indicator on how each athlete performs. 
